---
layout: post
title: "A quick foray into useful Regex functions"
subtitle: "fun things to do"
date: 2017-10-17 17:11:25 -0400
tags: Regex, Ruby, JavaScript, Python, SQL
series: 'master'.test(/regexp/)
summary: Fun things to do with Regex that are highly useful
---
*Note: this is a WIP post*

This will be a shorter post, but it's meant as a way to work through how to use Regex along with a programming language to get the results you need. It will include things like anagrams / sub-anagrams, multiple words containing one letter difference, and much more.

In pasts [one](http://mikemerin.github.io/regexp-1) and [two](http://mikemerin.github.io/regexp-2) of this regex tutorial series we covered a lot of basics and advanced techniques, all used in this post, and I strongly suggest going through those first two parts before reading this post. If you're experienced with regex then you can simply go through the quizes at the end of the posts to make sure you know the techniques used so far.

Again, this isn't merely a regex cheat sheet; there are plenty of those on the internet already and it's not always the best way to learn something from scratch. This is a step-by-step breakdown of what the many parts of regex can do, and includes scripts that show what the regex does the hood and how it simplifies the process entirely. This way if you have absolutely no experience with regex you can learn it through examples and explanations, and even if you know regex it'll help solidify that knowledge.

What inspired this post was a [question on Code Wars](https://www.codewars.com/kata/regex-password-validation) about using regular expressions to validate a strong password. I'll go piece by piece to solve that and in doing so learn many different techniques!

So now let's figure out how to do some advanced regex with JavaScript.

# Words with one vowel difference

WIP

# Anagrams and Sub Anagrams

At first it seems like a simple answer, and a basic answer `^(?!.*(.).*\1)[word]*$` for its shortness seems like it could be simple too, but there's a lot that goes into it.

---

So that's it! It's incredibly useful and the short regex is much cleaner than the JS script.

There's many, many more things you can do with regex, some look even more complex than what's above. As always I encourage you to look them up on your own and try them out if you're interested!

Code on.

-Mike Merin
